Add a how to guide about file identities (#43609)
elastic/beats: docs/reference/filebeat/file-identity.md

---
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/file-identity.html
---

# How to choose file identity for filestream [file-identity]

## What is file identity?

File identity is how [filestream input](/reference/filebeat/filebeat-input-filestream.md) differentiates one file from another in order to keep track of ingestion progress on each file.

Files can be renamed, moved or replaced during ingestion and filestream must be able to handle these changes without data duplication or data loss. It's not as straightforward as it might seem.

One of the most common examples is log rotation:

* Let's say we just track files by their names / paths.

> * Imagine that after reaching 10 MB in size a log file `important.log` gets renamed to `important.log.old` and a new file is started in its place

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Imagine that after reaching 10 MB in size a log file `important.log` gets renamed to `important.log.old` and a new file is started in its place.
```

Various file identities were introduced in Filebeat to remedy this problem using some additional file metadata to accurately track offsets in each file despite file operations applied to them.

### Why have multiple options?

File identity implementations have advantages over each other and they are optimized for a particular use-case or environment. The goal of this document is to provide a comprehensive overview that would help you to choose what fits your use-case the best.

Some of the file identities are more stable but other file identities are more responsive for smaller files.

### How to change file identity?

File identity is controlled by the `file_identity` configuration [option](/reference/filebeat/filebeat-input-filestream.md#filebeat-input-filestream-file-identity) in filestream.

It's possible to try out multiple file identities during test runs and see how well each file identity works in your environment.

> After changing the file identity configuration, on its next startup Filebeat tries to migrate all known file offsets from one file identity to another indicating this process in logs. However, it's important to choose your file identity before the production deployment since, due to the nature of the problem, the offset migration between file identities is not considered to be stable enough to have any guarantees. There are edge-cases that make identification ambiguous and prevent offsets from being migrated.

Reviewer 2: [Suggestion]
Explicitly state what happens when the offset cannot be migrated. 

perhaps something in the lines of:
```suggestion
After changing the file identity configuration, on its next startup Filebeat tries to migrate all known file offsets from one file identity to another indicating this process in logs. If it fails, the offset it reset to 0. Therefore, it's important to choose your file identity before the production deployment since, due to the nature of the problem, the offset migration between file identities is not considered to be stable enough to have any guarantees. There are edge-cases that make identification ambiguous and prevent offsets from being migrated.
```

Author: @belimawr are you confident enough to suggest using the state migration in production and let users to constantly switch between them?

There are edge-cases that regardless how stable the migration implementation is would not result in a stable migration.

For example, what happens when we stop Filebeat to change the file identity and we have log rotation meanwhile? Would state migration take this into account or just migrate the states that match current filenames?

Reviewer 3: > @belimawr are you confident enough to suggest using the state migration in production and let users to constantly switch between them?

Yes, the feature is GA. I'm as confident with it as with any other GA feature. If that was not the case it should not be GA. It is also used by default in 9.0. With the change in the default file identity from Filestream, upon upgrade to 9.0, if the file identity is not explicitly set, it will change to fingerprint and the migration will run.

Also the feature only supports migrating between `nateive` or `path` to `fingerprint`, so it is not possible for user to keep "constantly switching between them".

> There are edge-cases that regardless how stable the migration implementation is would not result in a stable migration.

> For example, what happens when we stop Filebeat to change the file identity and we have log rotation meanwhile? Would state migration take this into account or just migrate the states that match current filenames?

Not what you would think, not what I expected either. So, when Filestream starts, with default settings, `clean_removed` is enabled, so the second thing `fileProspector.Init` does is to clean up the store, if an entry from the store has a `meta.source` that does not match any of the files found by the filewatcher, then it is removed. By the time the file identity migration runs, there is no entry from that file to be migrated. Even without the file identity migration, the store clean up would remove the state, this is the behaviour in 8.17 and may older versions. Here is the code from the latest release (8.17.4): https://github.com/elastic/beats/blob/5449535b768a9308714a63dc745911c924da307b/filebeat/input/filestream/prospector.go#L89-L101

Even if the store clean up is disabled, the file identity migration would exhibit the same behaviour as they both build onto the same "store cleaner" concept that iterates over the registry and checks if the `meta.source` matches the files found by the filewatcher.

I'll ping Craig about it to see if we want to do anything before 9.0.

Author: @belimawr I changed this section here https://github.com/elastic/beats/pull/43609/commits/0358f0131d44fd28a49757fe72ce1ed57d1a8f4a

Reviewer 3: It looks great, thanks @rdner!

## Supported options

### Overview [file-identity-overview]

Here is the brief high-level comparison of all currently available options:

| Name | Use case | Pros | Cons |
|------|----------|------|------|
| path | Files are never moved or renamed, file names are never re-used. | Simple and fast. | The most unstable option, requires to maintain immutable file paths. |

> | native | Stable file systems, files < 64 bytes in size, ingestion without delays. | Low CPU / memory overhead. | Might cause data duplication or data loss if the file system provides unstable `inode` or `device` values. No support for network shares, containers or VMs.

Author: see https://github.com/elastic/beats/pull/43609/files#r2024473881

> | native | Stable file systems, files < 64 bytes in size, ingestion without delays. | Low CPU / memory overhead. | Might cause data duplication or data loss if the file system provides unstable `inode` or `device` values. No support for network shares, containers or VMs.

Author: ```suggestion
| native **(default in Filebeat < 9.0)** | Stable file systems, files < 64 bytes in size, ingestion without delays. | Low CPU / memory overhead. | Might cause data duplication or data loss if the file system provides unstable `inode` or `device` values. No support for network shares, containers or VMs.
```

> | inode_marker | Same as `native` but `device` number is changing. | Same as `native` + no dependency on `device` number. | Can still cause data duplication or data loss due to unstable `inode` values provided by the file system. Also, no support for network shares, containers or VMs. |

Author: @belimawr The official doc names this as "device number", 

>  %d     device number in decimal (st_dev)
>  %D     device number in hex (st_dev)

see https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/stat.1.html

This is also supported by this answer here https://stackoverflow.com/a/4309907

I'd like to use the naming as close to the source as possible.

I decided to avoid mentioning Windows support on `inode_marker`, it's already done in the main doc. I believe the only reason why this limitation exists is the fact that it was named `inode` and `inode` is unix-specific. I have not found any other reason.

Because Windows is using more stable identifiers, I think it's unlikely anyone would need it on Windows anyway.

> | inode_marker | Same as `native` but `device` number is changing. | Same as `native` + no dependency on `device` number. | Can still cause data duplication or data loss due to unstable `inode` values provided by the file system. Also, no support for network shares, containers or VMs. |

Reviewer 3: I see, so maybe use "`device number`" instead of "`device` number"? What do you think?

The word device alone can mean many things, when I was reading that was confusing to me.

> | inode_marker | Same as `native` but `device` number is changing. | Same as `native` + no dependency on `device` number. | Can still cause data duplication or data loss due to unstable `inode` values provided by the file system. Also, no support for network shares, containers or VMs. |

Author: It's just how they output it in the `stat` command. Just `device`.

Honestly, the whole `device ID` vs `device number` is very messy in the `stat` docs. The authors don't seem to be consistent in its naming. I decided to take what is written in man but there are places where it's `device ID` like here:

> dev_t      st_dev;      /* ID of device containing file */

https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/stat.3type.html

I think I'm going to revert everything to `device ID` and refer to this struct instead of the command manual.

> | inode_marker | Same as `native` but `device` number is changing. | Same as `native` + no dependency on `device` number. | Can still cause data duplication or data loss due to unstable `inode` values provided by the file system. Also, no support for network shares, containers or VMs. |

Author: A Red Hat manual also refers to it as "device number", go figure 😀

https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/7/html/logical_volume_manager_administration/lv#persistent_numbers

Okay, I'll try to preserve both.

> | inode_marker | Same as `native` but `device` number is changing. | Same as `native` + no dependency on `device` number. | Can still cause data duplication or data loss due to unstable `inode` values provided by the file system. Also, no support for network shares, containers or VMs. |

Author: Changed in https://github.com/elastic/beats/pull/43609/commits/56e31adb4a0be97ebcec7c9a16690105fcfcb60d

> | fingerprint | Files > 64 bytes in size (1 KB is a recommended default). Log files with unique content. | The most stable. Support for network shares, containers and VMs. | Slightly higher CPU / memory usage, does not start to ingest files before they reach the required size (1 KB by default). |

Author: ```suggestion
| fingerprint | Files > 64 bytes in size (1 KB is a recommended default). Log files with unique content. | The most stable. Support for any OS, any file system, network shares, containers and VMs. | Slightly higher CPU / memory usage, does not start to ingest files before they reach the required size (1 KB by default). |
```

> | fingerprint | Files > 64 bytes in size (1 KB is a recommended default). Log files with unique content. | The most stable. Support for any OS, any file system, network shares, containers and VMs. | Slightly higher CPU / memory usage, does not start to ingest files before they reach the required size (1 KB by default). |

Author: ```suggestion
| fingerprint **(default in Filebeat >= 9.0)** | Files > 64 bytes in size (1 KB is a recommended default). Log files with unique content. | The most stable. Support for any OS, any file system, network shares, containers and VMs. | Slightly higher CPU / memory usage, does not start to ingest files before they reach the required size (1 KB by default). |
```

### `path`

This is the most basic file identity that uses file paths as their identifiers.

If you're completely certain that your environment does not have log rotation, does not ever rename or move files, then you might consider using paths as unique stable identifiers for each file. This is the simplest but the riskiest option and it's not recommended to use.

### `native`

This file identity implementation is using:

* For Unix-like systems: the `device` number and [`inode`](https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/inode.7.html) from the [`stat`](https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/stat.2.html) call. Can be viewed by using the `stat` command on any file.

> * For Windodws: `dwVolumeSerialNumber`, `nFileIndexLow` and `nFileIndexHigh` values from the [file handler](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/fileapi/ns-fileapi-by_handle_file_information).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* For Windows: `dwVolumeSerialNumber`, `nFileIndexLow` and `nFileIndexHigh` values from the [file handler](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/fileapi/ns-fileapi-by_handle_file_information).
```

It combines these values together into a unique file identifier.

> It's stable on most common file systems. However, when used on some uncommon file systems, network shares, in containers or in virtualized environments it might lead to data duplication. This happens due to the re-use of `inode` values by the file system or a change of device numbers after reboot or reconnected network.

Reviewer 3: After further reading, I noticed that you already provided a example of a common file system that re-uses inode: Ubuntu Docker container.

It might not be the traditional file system from a machine with a physical disk, but it is common as it is widely used.

> It's stable on most common file systems. However, when used on some uncommon file systems, network shares, in containers or in virtualized environments it might lead to data duplication. This happens due to the re-use of `inode` values by the file system or a change of device numbers after reboot or reconnected network.

Author: ```suggestion
It's stable under normal circumstances. However, when used in some environments with uncommon file systems, on network shares, in containers or in virtualized environments it might lead to data duplication. This happens due to the re-use of `inode` values by the file system or a change of device numbers after reboot or reconnected network.
```

This Bash script can demonstrate whether your file system is susceptible to the inode re-use problem:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

FILENAME=inode-test

touch $FILENAME
INODE=$(ls -i "$FILENAME")
echo "$FILENAME created with inode '$INODE'"

COPY_FILENAME="$FILENAME-copy"
cp -a $FILENAME $COPY_FILENAME
COPY_INODE=$(ls -i "$COPY_FILENAME")
echo "Copied $FILENAME->$COPY_FILENAME, the new inode for the copy '$COPY_INODE'"

rm $FILENAME
echo "$FILENAME has been deleted"

ls $FILENAME

cp -a $COPY_FILENAME $FILENAME
NEW_INODE=$(ls -i "$FILENAME")

echo "After copying $COPY_FILENAME back to $FILENAME the inode is '$NEW_INODE'"

rm $FILENAME $COPY_FILENAME

> ```

Reviewer 4: Wdyt of wrapping this in an heredoc and piping to bash so it is easier to copy-paste to check this on a system?

```bash
cat <<EOF | bash
# script lines here
EOF
```

However, this problem with device numbers can be fixed by our next file identity option.

### `inode_marker`

Let's say you verified that your file system does not re-use `inode` values and it's safe to rely on them. But you found out that the device number was changing and caused Filebeat to re-ingest all the data from the beginning causing data duplication.

This can be fixed by using a special marker file on your file system instead of asking the OS for a device number.

Users specify a path by setting `file_identity.inode_marker.path`. This path leads to a file that has some short unique text that remains unchanged forever. The content of this file replaces the `device` number in the `native` file identity. The rest remains the same as `native`.

### `fingerprint`

The most stable file identity implementation at the moment. This file identity is default since Filebeat version 9.0.

This file identity is using file fingerprints produced by the scanner component of the filestream input. Therefore, in order to activate this file identity, it's required to first activate fingerprint in the scanner by setting `prospector.scanner.fingerprint.enabled: true`.

> In the context of the filestream input, fingerprint is a hash string computed from a part of the file content.

Reviewer 3: I'd add here the hash algorithm used instead of just "hash".

Author: It's not just "hash" it' a "hash string" here which I believe is clear.

![Fingerprint File Identity](/reference/filebeat/img/fingerprint-file-identity.png)

By default, the hashed part of the file is the first 1024 bytes (`offset: 0`, `length: 1024`). Most of the log files have timestamps and other unique segments on each line that make sure that the first 1024 bytes combined together constitute a unique set of characters. This makes sure that a produced fingerprint is a stable unique identifier for each file.

> If necessary it's possible to move this hashed byte range farther in the file by adjusting `prospector.scanner.fingerprint.offset`. It's also possible to change the amount of bytes used for hashing by adjusting `prospector.scanner.fingerprint.length` (minimum value is 64). Keep in mind, the smaller the range, the more likely it is to hit a collision, so the fingerprint (ID) is not unique anymore. If this happens only the first file with a collided ID will be ingested.

Reviewer 2: [Suggestion]
Add the unit here

```suggestion
If necessary it's possible to move this hashed byte range farther in the file by adjusting `prospector.scanner.fingerprint.offset`. It's also possible to change the amount of bytes used for hashing by adjusting `prospector.scanner.fingerprint.length` (minimum value is 64 bytes). Keep in mind, the smaller the range, the more likely it is to hit a collision, so the fingerprint (ID) is not unique anymore. If this happens only the first file with a collided ID will be ingested.
```

> This file identity covers most of the use-cases. It's OS-agnostic, supports any file system including network shares and it makes sure to avoid data duplication or data loss.

Reviewer 3: I'd make it all one sentence:
```suggestion
This file identity covers most of the use-cases, it's OS-agnostic, supports any file system including network shares and it makes sure to avoid data duplication or data loss.
```

However, there is a trade off: using this file identity delays ingesting data from files smaller than the required amount of bytes for computing the fingerprint.

For example, Filebeat is running a filestream input with this configuration:

```yaml
prospector.scanner.fingerprint:
  enabled: true
  offset: 32   # e.g. the first 32 bytes are always identical in every file, we skip them
  length: 1024 # strong guarantee of uniqueness
file_identity.fingerprint: ~
```

If a new log file appears, the filestream input would not "see" it until it grows to 1056 bytes (`offset`+`length`).

For some use-cases it might be a requirement to receive data as soon as possible without delays. For some use-cases files would not grow to such sizes at all and would never be ingested. It's important to consider these limitations accordingly.

> The stability of this file identity makes it a recommended and default option.

Reviewer 3: The whole document is great @rdner !

Aside from the minor changes I pointed out, I'd also move fingerprint to the top, so users are first introduced to our recommend, file identity, then others can be discussed. I'd also move this phrase to the top, stating on the same paragraph that this  is the default for 9.0 and is the recommended one.

Author: I meant to order them in ascending complexity and reliability. I also believe it's a chronological order of when they were introduced.

I put the overview table first to have better visibility, I can mark defaults with bold.

Author: Done in https://github.com/elastic/beats/pull/43609/commits/32c62fcd11d792a9cc449282160f4394bf714e66

Author: This guide is supposed to help choose the right tool for the right use-case not to push customers to using the only option we want them to use. As this guide explains `fingerprint` might be not the right option for some use-cases (e.g. small files and instant ingest).

---
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/file-identity.html
---

# How to choose file identity for filestream [file-identity]

## What is file identity?

> File identity is how [filestream input](/reference/filebeat/filebeat-input-filestream.md) differentiates one file from another in order to keep track of ingestion progress on each file.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
File identity is how the [filestream input](/reference/filebeat/filebeat-input-filestream.md) differentiates one file from another in order to keep track of ingestion progress on each file.
```

Files can be renamed, moved or replaced during ingestion and filestream must be able to handle these changes without data duplication or data loss. It's not as straightforward as it might seem.

One of the most common examples is log rotation:

> * Let's say we just track files by their names / paths.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Let's assume that we just track files by their names or paths.
```

> * Imagine that after reaching 10 MB in size a log file `important.log` gets renamed to `important.log.old` and a new file is started in its place.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Imagine that after reaching 10 MB in size, a log file `important.log` gets renamed to `important.log.old` and a new file is started in its place.
```

* This log rotation happens before we reach the end of file (EOF) on `important.log`.

> Depending on your configuration 2 different things can happen:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Depending on your configuration two different things can happen:
```

1. If you configured to exclude `*.old` files from ingestion you would have data loss.

> 2. If you ingest from `*.old` - massive data duplication.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
2. If you ingest from `*.old`, this would result in a large amount of data duplication.
```
I'm not sure if that's the best phrasing but I would avoid "massive".

> Why would this happen? File names are not stable (non-changing) identifiers. This means we cannot use names to track the progress of ingestion on each file also known as offset. The offset on `important.log` was somewhere in the middle, let's say `offset: 145400` but since it got renamed to `important.log.old`, we detect this file as new and we start ingesting from the beginning - `offset: 0`. Therefore we re-ingest the same data again.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Why would this happen? File names are not stable (non-changing) identifiers. This means that we cannot use names to track the progress of ingestion on each file also known as the offset. The offset on `important.log` was somewhere in the middle, for example `offset: 145400` but since the file was renamed to `important.log.old`, we detect this file as new and we start ingesting from the beginning, from `offset: 0`. Therefore we re-ingest the same data again.
```

Various file identities were introduced in Filebeat to remedy this problem using some additional file metadata to accurately track offsets in each file despite file operations applied to them.

### Why have multiple options?

> File identity implementations have advantages over each other and they are optimized for a particular use-case or environment. The goal of this document is to provide a comprehensive overview that would help you to choose what fits your use-case the best.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
File identity implementations have advantages over each other and they are optimized for a particular use-case or environment. The goal of this document is to provide a comprehensive overview to help you choose what best fits your  particular use case.
```

| path | Files are never moved or renamed, file names are never re-used. | Simple and fast. | The most unstable option, requires to maintain immutable file paths. |
| native (default in Filebeat < 9.0) | Stable file systems, files < 64 bytes in size, ingestion without delays. | Low CPU / memory overhead. | Might cause data duplication or data loss if the file system provides unstable `inode` or `device ID` values. No support for network shares, containers or VMs.
| inode_marker | Same as `native` but `device ID` is changing. | Same as `native` + no dependency on `device ID`. | Can still cause data duplication or data loss due to unstable `inode` values provided by the file system. Also, no support for network shares, containers or VMs. |
| fingerprint (default in Filebeat >= 9.0) | Files > 64 bytes in size (1 KB is a recommended default). Log files with unique content. | The most stable. Support for any OS, any file system, network shares, containers and VMs. | Slightly higher CPU / memory usage, does not start to ingest files before they reach the required size (1 KB by default). |

### `path`

This is the most basic file identity that uses file paths as their identifiers.

> If you're completely certain that your environment does not have log rotation, does not ever rename or move files, then you might consider using paths as unique stable identifiers for each file. This is the simplest but the riskiest option and it's not recommended to use.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you're completely certain that your environment does not have log rotation, that it does not ever rename or move files, then you might consider using paths as unique stable identifiers for each file. This is the simplest but the riskiest option and it's not recommended to use.
```

echo "Copied $FILENAME->$COPY_FILENAME, the new inode for the copy '$COPY_INODE'"

rm $FILENAME
echo "$FILENAME has been deleted"

ls $FILENAME

cp -a $COPY_FILENAME $FILENAME
NEW_INODE=$(ls -i "$FILENAME")

echo "After copying $COPY_FILENAME back to $FILENAME the inode is '$NEW_INODE'"

rm $FILENAME $COPY_FILENAME
```

For example, for Mac OS on APFS you'll see something like:

```
inode-test created with inode '112076744 inode-test'
Copied inode-test->inode-test-copy, the new inode for the copy '112076745 inode-test-copy'
inode-test has been deleted
After copying inode-test-copy back to inode-test the inode is '112076746 inode-test'
```

As you can see, on APFS all three files have different inode values: 112076744, 112076745, and 112076746. So, this works as expected and creates stable identifiers.

However, if you run the same script in an Ubuntu Docker container:

```
inode-test created with inode '1715023 inode-test'
Copied inode-test->inode-test-copy, the new inode for the copy '1715026 inode-test-copy'
inode-test has been deleted
ls: cannot access 'inode-test': No such file or directory
After copying inode-test-copy back to inode-test the inode is '1715023 inode-test'
```

> You can see that the file system cached the inode value from the first file, which we deleted, and reused it for the second copy with the same filename: 1715023, 1715026, and 1715023.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can see that the file system cached the inode value from the first file, which we deleted, and reused the value for the second copy with the same filename: 1715023, 1715026, and 1715023.
```

Even worse, it does not even have to be the same filename; a different file can reuse the same inode:

```sh
# touch x
# ls -i x
1715023 x # inode value for the first file
# rm x
# touch y
# ls -i y
1715023 y # same inode value for the second file with a different name
```

> As mentioned before, it's common for containerized environments and network shares. If you're planning to run Filebeat in such an environment, avoid using this file identity.
> 
> It's not only `inode` values: when using the Linux [LVM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logical_Volume_Manager_%28Linux%29) (Logical Volume Manager), device numbers are allocated dynamically at module load (refer to [Persistent Device Numbers](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/7/html/logical_volume_manager_administration/lv#persistent_numbers) in the Red Hat Enterprise Linux documentation).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
As mentioned before, it's common for containerized environments and network shares. If you're planning to run Filebeat in such an environment, avoid using this file identity.

It's not only `inode` values: when using the Linux [LVM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logical_Volume_Manager_%28Linux%29) (Logical Volume Manager), device numbers are allocated dynamically at module load (refer to [Persistent Device Numbers](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/7/html/logical_volume_manager_administration/lv#persistent_numbers) in the Red Hat Enterprise Linux documentation).
```

In both passages you might consider replacing "It's" with something more descriptive. Something like, "the problem of cached inode values is a common occurance in containerized environments and network shares", or soemthing like that.

However, this problem with device numbers (IDs) can be fixed by our next file identity option.

### `inode_marker`

> Let's say you verified that your file system does not re-use `inode` values and it's safe to rely on them. But you found out that the `device ID` was changing and caused Filebeat to re-ingest all the data from the beginning causing data duplication.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Let's assume that you verified that your file system does not re-use `inode` values and it's safe to rely on them. But, you found out that the `device ID` was changing and caused Filebeat to re-ingest all the data from the beginning, causing data duplication.
```

### `fingerprint`

The most stable file identity implementation at the moment. This file identity is default since Filebeat version 9.0.

This file identity is using file fingerprints produced by the scanner component of the filestream input. Therefore, in order to activate this file identity, it's required to first activate fingerprint in the scanner by setting `prospector.scanner.fingerprint.enabled: true`.

In the context of the filestream input, fingerprint is a hash string computed from a part of the file content.

![Fingerprint File Identity](/reference/filebeat/img/fingerprint-file-identity.png)

By default, the hashed part of the file is the first 1024 bytes (`offset: 0`, `length: 1024`). Most of the log files have timestamps and other unique segments on each line that make sure that the first 1024 bytes combined together constitute a unique set of characters. This makes sure that a produced fingerprint is a stable unique identifier for each file.

> If necessary it's possible to move this hashed byte range farther in the file by adjusting `prospector.scanner.fingerprint.offset`. It's also possible to change the amount of bytes used for hashing by adjusting `prospector.scanner.fingerprint.length` (minimum value is 64 bytes). Keep in mind, the smaller the range, the more likely it is to hit a collision, so the fingerprint (ID) is not unique anymore. If this happens only the first file with a collided ID will be ingested.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If necessary, it's possible to move this hashed byte range farther into the file by adjusting the `prospector.scanner.fingerprint.offset` setting. It's also possible to change the number of bytes used for hashing by adjusting `prospector.scanner.fingerprint.length` (minimum value is 64 bytes). Keep in mind that the smaller the range, the more likely it is to hit a collision, so the fingerprint (ID) is not unique anymore. If this happens, only the first file with a collided ID will be ingested.
```

> This file identity covers most of the use-cases, it's OS-agnostic, supports any file system including network shares and it makes sure to avoid data duplication or data loss.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This file identity covers most of the common use cases, it's OS-agnostic, it supports any file system including network shares, and it ensures that data duplication or data loss are avoided.
```

> However, there is a trade off: using this file identity delays ingesting data from files smaller than the required amount of bytes for computing the fingerprint.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
However, there is a trade off: using file identity delays ingesting data from files smaller than the required amount of bytes for computing the fingerprint.
```

For example, Filebeat is running a filestream input with this configuration:

```yaml
prospector.scanner.fingerprint:
  enabled: true
  offset: 32   # e.g. the first 32 bytes are always identical in every file, we skip them
  length: 1024 # strong guarantee of uniqueness
file_identity.fingerprint: ~
```

If a new log file appears, the filestream input would not "see" it until it grows to 1056 bytes (`offset`+`length`).

> For some use-cases it might be a requirement to receive data as soon as possible without delays. For some use-cases files would not grow to such sizes at all and would never be ingested. It's important to consider these limitations accordingly.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For some use cases, it might be a requirement to receive data as soon as possible without delays. For other use cases, files would not grow to such sizes at all and would never be ingested. It's important to consider these limitations accordingly.
```
